# Alignment

Digital devices, also referred as electric and electronic equipment \(EEE\), are relevant examples of "slow moving" circular goods \(SMCG\) that, from a circular economy perspective, can have a long usable life. The longer the better for the economy and the environment, as their production and destruction have huge economic, social and environmental impact. Their lifecycle can be extended through cycles of use, reuse, repair, upgrade, and final recycling into ewaste of these goods. This is the economy of second hand \(reuse\), as rreuse.org promises. Refurbished computers, laptops, mobiles are used digital devices, repaired by manufacturers or authorized third parties. After proper repairing and testing, the refurbished product goes back to the supply chain. These devices, backed by a warranty, are attractive to consumers for its low-cost, although low consumer awareness about refurbished goods, and its limited supply of good quality products are major factors restraining the growth of this market. This is due to the lack of standard ways to process efficiently \(cost effectiveness\) and certificate the quality of the preparation of refurbished computers, the lack of reliable traceability mechanisms to ensure that all users involved in the lifetime of a device comply to the requirement of a final recycling, the absence of software tools and services for a data-driven circular economy where refurbishers, retailers and maintenance companies could exchange certified data about the status and traceability of digital devices.

The key contribution from TIS to eReuse would be: 1. FunCodes that allow to uniquely identify the products and irreversibly mark their status \(new/used/prepared for reuse/recycled\), using photochromic tags, 2. the Android app allows us to validate the device, user using location, and 3. the Data Analytics module to capture product interactions and define custom analytics.

The eReuse contribution to TIS would be: 1. the Workbench module for hardware discovery, diagnostics, data wipe, asset tracking until recycling, grading, automatic pricing and downstream compliance, 2. links from tags to an inventory repository and log as a B2B marketplace that brings together companies involved in the circular economy of devices.

The expected business impact of the “used computers” use case with the TIS ecosystem can offer business differentiators such as: 1. quality control and brand protection for refurbished computers, retailers and consumers, 2. improvement of the warranty models to help business to move from selling products to renting/service business models, 3. mapping and sharing products between stakeholders in standardized B2B platforms increasing the supply chain of the refurbished products following certified process.

