# Ambition

Our proposal brings to TIS a new key use case about “circular economy” for “slow moving circular goods” \(SMCG\), and modules for the inventory and traceability of individual devices across its lifecycle, as a contribution to the product passport vision in collaboration with the partners in this sector in Europe. That can bring TIS innovations to a large sector of the European and global circular economy, mainly to EEE and in general any SMCG. The specific advances are detailed next.

**Based on an Open-Source device management tool**: [DeviceTag.io](https://vimeo.com/239884897) is a service provided by Pangea, based on eReuse.org components developed with support of the CHEST EU Project \#611333. DeviceTag.io offers eReuse.org as software as a service for businesses to exchange certified data about the digital devices they want to exchange and certifies such data and automates involved processes, reduces overhead, human-made mistakes and ultimately boosts confidence between peers. Devices such as desktops, phones and laptops processed by DeviceTag.io are traceable at component level \(hard drive, motherboard, CPU, etc\) and track where devices are and detect changes in the components \(upgrade/repair\). This tool assist in dealing with each device by 1\) collecting information about it; 2\) managing inventories of devices; 3\) preparing a device for reuse by uniquely identifying it, reliably erasing its data, performing tests and benchmarks, algorithmic estimation of price for the B2B marketplace, and reinstalling the OS; this process verify the refurbishment process of turning broken, obsolete or misused digital devices into as-new devices, protecting consumers, retailers and brands of buying/selling non-functional digital devices.

**Technology Readiness Level** \(TRL\): The project builds on the comprehensive knowledge and experience in the development and operation of the Pangea Reuse Circuit \(Spain\) in the last 3 years, and the experience from interaction with agents in other countries such as UK, Ireland and USA mainly. The prototype software tools and web services were developed mainly over the last 18 months, and through field trials and the corresponding pilot studies in the last year involving established green economy agents such as donors, companies specialized in recycling and reuse, governmental organizations. The fundamental ideas have been formulated and validated first at TRL 4 \(in the lab\), then TRL 5 \(validated in relevant environment\), recently TRL 6 \(demonstrated in relevant environment\) and partially to TRL 7 \(System prototype demonstration in an operational environment\). The ambition is now to target a wider scope of circular economy circuits that can leverage from our TRL 6-7 experience and integrate the TIS tools and services. For instance, in the last semester, around 800 computers were collected, refurbished and sold to customers in Barcelona, which shows the capacity of the organization, software tools, services, processes and economic model, which has provided the feasibility basis for this proposal.

**Data-Driven Circular Economy Business Models**: DeviceTag.io is part of the eReuse.org Commons. The eReuse community uses the data and traceability services, and contributes with a usage fee for the sustainability of the software development and service operation. The eReuse community also participates in the certification and audit of the information stored. The novelty of our innovative model comes from considering the model as a circular ecology commons. The approach is supported by the experience of a decade of field work at the UPC university in Barcelona.

**A growing community of users requesting new services**: The eReuse.org commons is not a hierarchical model with a central company dominated by a single player, with closed software tools, services and intellectual property, but a global federation of local groups, organisations, communities and companies that share experiences, ideas and requirements. There is a growing interest in the eReuse platform, with a planned migration from cloud servers to a cloud platform for the service. At present we have more than 15 organizations \(www.ereuse.org/community\) and a platform that could include new services, certifications, exchange agreements, marketing or reputation systems.

**A differentiating factor with respect to other inventory solutions**: The main differentiator with competitors \(freshservice.com, device42.com, and GPLI for open-source solutions\) is traceability throughout the life-cycle. It would be a unique selling point. \[removed: GRD description, not implemented yet\] \[added: 2018/03/03: traceability of components and certification of device status \(features / aesthetics / operation\)\]

**Digital Circular Market**: The project will contribute to the consolidation of the digital circular market by means of offering citizens, private and public organisations with decentralised, affordable and reliable tools, services and processes for acquisition, use, reuse and recycling with strict guarantees of reliability, efficiency, traceability. The availability of such infrastructure will result in a fully integrated and scalable circular economy. The ambition is to find ways to increase the uptake of circular economy models for digital devices that require higher performance, transparency and trustworthiness than what current device management systems can provide. Enabling and supporting these infrastructures and services across all citizens, public and private organisations in Europe will contribute to bring a Circular Single Market for a circular economy of these digital devices. In comparison, Tradeloop.com the USA is creating a B2B marketplace to facilitate the exchange but is not certifying processes and status of devices.

