# Concept and approach

The main idea is the development of the **“circular economy” use case** for **SMCG** that are reusable, repairable, upgradeable, with internal replaceable parts \(in contrast to FMCG or CPG goods\).

Specifically, we work with a key subset of SMCG: digital devices \(laptops, desktops, mobiles\) that have parts/components, that can be refurbished externally but also internally \(cleaning digital storage from personal digital data\), and therefore being traded/transferred in the reuse market. Our digital devices can be inspected internally through our analysis software tools \(workbench\) and the tag/id can provide a link to that rich data \(stored in the DeviceTag service\) initially \(during manufacturing\) but also can be audited along the life-cycle \(and that leads to the idea of the product passport for these devices\). The results are applicable to any Electrical and Electronic Equipment \(EEE\), and to some extent, to any reusable and repairable device \(SMCG\).

In our **pilot** we will test the integration of the TIS infrastructure and framework in our services, ensuring it covers the business needs for the use case, and it provides key differentiators for competitiveness.

Regarding the **TIS platform**, from the TIS architecture model, specifically we will use SmartTags \(FC\) for components and devices, encoding reversible and non-reversible lifecycle states and authenticity validation. TIS modules/components to consider: UI, SmartTag encoding, Qualytics, service execution \(to run eReuse services, service management\), data processing \(for eReuse data, considering stream processing and data analytics\), recycling locations API. We plan to integrate of our eReuse DeviceTag module with the TIS data access modules for the benefit of other use cases. We expect to benefit from the “consult and domain knowledge” in our case and pilot.

In our pilot project the users of eReuse platforms will test the integration with the TIS platform and the use of SmartTags to control the devices and components. We have chosen 8 customer segments with different business needs. 1\) **buyback**: use a scoring and pricing systems to automate the price calculation for the purchase of used computers, 2\) **retailer**: A B2B service to purchase refurbished computers and to assess the state of functioning and features of computers in order to offer warranty or its extension, 3\) **Service**: a desktop application that allows to check the incidences of an individual computer registered in the system, including hardware details about each component and provide post sale channel support, 4\) **exporters**: secure tags that report and certify the state of, either good operation or its classification as ewaste, of the computers being exported, 5\) **refurbishers**: can share their certified stocks with retailers, 6\) **ITAD**: data security and compliance solutions and stock sharing, 7\) **Recyclers**: being able to offer their collection services and reporting systems to the competent authorities and, finally 8\) **Digital Divide Initiatives**: public or NGOs, similar to retailers, but must guarantee a fair pricing to receivers, with a minimal charge for circularity services to support economically disadvantaged recipients while ensuring traceability until final recycling.

The TIS solution will be tested in a real environment with at least 500 computers between laptops and desktops with the following organizations: engrunes.cat, trinijove.org, engrunes.cat, alencop.coop, blueterabyte.es, abacus.coop, computeraid.org, reciclanet.net, andromines.org, labdoo.org and donalo.org.

Our commercial model is based on a platform as a service \(cost as a percentage of the price of sale\), and Software as a Service \(per volume for other companies\). DeviceTag.io offers the eReuse.org software for businesses to exchange certified data about digital devices they want to exchange, certifies such data and automates processes, reduces overhead, human-made mistakes and ultimately boosts confidence between peers.

At local level, our commercial model has consolidated in Spain as a platform as a service, based on a percentage of the sale price of the products. The sale price of second-hand products is determined by an algorithm accepted by the entities participating in our circuit. The refurbisher typically gets 40% of the sale price, the retailer gets 40%, and the remaining 20% goes to our platform.

At international level we are exploring commercialization under a software as a service model. This is a model that requires less investment and allows us to delegate to the franchises all the commercial, market and legislation requirements. In this case, we do not obtain a percentage of the selling price of the product, but we charge a fixed amount for each product refurbished and tracked. There smart tags can be very helpful to add trust to this model.

