# Expected impact

The main impact comes from the definition of a key use case for circular economy of SMCG, the extension of the TIS platform to cover this use case, and the development and piloting of business models and solutions for this sector with a large and growing business need, and public interest.

Refurbished computer and laptops are an alternative way to supply digital devices with an extended lifespan and reduce e-waste. Three main benefits of the circular economy of reuse: 1\) Increase lifecycle impacts on reducing TCO, decrease and lowers overall environmental & social impact 2\) Maintain and repair may generate 3-4 more turnover than original purchase \(repairs, servicing, diagnostics, technical support, installation, warranty\). 3\) Reuse/redistribute creates a localized revenue stream, with local maintenance services, upgrades, etc.

Between 2005 and 2015 a total of 3314 million of devices have been sold worldwide \(including desktop PCs, mobile PCs, and servers with i86 processor architecture\) but only a small fraction of devices and their components have an extended lifespan in Europe by repair, upgrade or reuse. In Flash Eurobarometer 388, buying second-hand electronic equipment would be considered by at least 50% of people in just three Member States: Spain \(58%\), Portugal \(54%\), and the UK \(51%\).

The major segments of refurbished computer according to end-user applications include: offices, schools, government, non-profits. The major players of the refurbished computer and laptops market include Apple Inc., HP, A2C Services, Dell, Acer, Lenovo, ASUSTeK, Amazon, Samsung Electronics, and the RREUSE social enterprises. In Europe the growing focus by government bodies through regulatory guidance for the promotion of repairability \(European Parliament, [2016/2272](http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sides/getDoc.do?type=TA&language=EN&reference=P8-TA-2017-0287)\) and better e-waste management processes has amplified the electronic equipment refurbishment and recycling activities here. North America and Europe are anticipated to capture maximum market share with respect to revenue for refurbished computer and laptops market, owing to increase in government regulation on reducing e-waste. In Europe there is a powerful ecosystem of social enterprises dedicated to the recovery of products that have been doing computer refurbishment for some years.

The TIS project will provide the technological capacity and differential value to scale the solution, already running in Spain with 15+ organizations involved, at European level. The current eReuse solution does not use smart tags and this is a barrier. SmartTags and their capabilities to change based on light can be used to first identify uniquely the state of the item at hand and second to provide means to ensure product quality in refurbishment protecting brands image and consumers. The photocromic reversible zones ensures transparency of equipment lifecycle \(a sticker is used to protect it\). The state "operative" or "non-operative" could be reversed by reading with an smartphone the QR tag and this state always will be certified, increasing second-hand customer satisfaction or reducing [illegal trade](http://ec.europa.eu/environment/circular-economy/implementation_report.pdf) \(EC COM\(2017\) 33\) because customs agents just need to read the QR not any more test the equipment. The states "prepared for reuse" / "recycle" are irreversible changes in the tag, helping data to be delivered or not to local authorities avoiding double counting for reuse. The selling price and receiver audiences values are returned by an app, in that way this reduce dumping practises with donated devices or ensuring it is sold to inclusive prices to target audiences. The value of the resource \(current and if repaired\) is returned by an app enabling a data-driven decision-making to going forward circular economy so we only recycle when the product’s use value is lower than products's raw materials \(European Environmental Bureau, Circular Economy Package 2.0\).

TIS technology will enable to create B2B marketplace between retailers, refurbishers and repair business. This improvement in technology will make it possible to improve the supply of products destined for internal demand in Europe, in order to progressively reduce the number of products exported outside Europe for their refurbishment \(today 68%, CWIT 2015\). TIS partners could market a solution to cover and adapt this growing market. The TIS solution will include traceability at component level to ensure recycling of the reused material. A research about illegal trade of Waste Electric and Electronic Equipment \(WEEE\) found that from 9 Mt of WEEE in Europe, only 35% ended up in the officially reported collection and recycling systems, and the remaining 65% were: 24.39% exports \(of which 86% illegal exports\), 51.22% recycled under non-compliant conditions in Europe, 12.2% scavenged from valuable parts, and 12.2% thrown in waste bins. With TIS and traceability we can ensure more devices are recycled, getting near 100% of internal components. We estimate the economic value of the devices reaching the recycler is around 200€ C/tonne when incomplete, and around 800€ C/tonne when complete.

Finally, we should not forget the impact of reuse on reducing the digital divide. Traceability of used products can be set to visible showing the full cycles of reuse with the chain of business and users until recycling. This ensures that donated computers from public sector are sold with a limited profit margin and the final recipient pays an inclusive price. That impacts on cost savings on subsidies of governments related to resource pooling, create social and local economy, digital inclusion and prevent electronic waste by extending it devices lifespan. In the ereuse.org platform around desktops are valued around 80€ and 110€ per laptop, and currently in public institutions more than 80% of digital devices to be recycled are still operational \(without need for repair\).

