# D3.1     Use case & pilot design \(M2\)

**Deliverable Status:** working  
**Deliverable Number:** D3.1  
**Deliverable Due Month:** M2  
**Deliverable WP Number**: 3  
**Deliverable File**:   
**Executive Summary**:



| Call Identifier: | TagItSmart!02 call |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Proposal full name: | Circular economy for electronics reuse |
| Proposal acronym: | eReuse |
| Project URL | http://www.ereuse.org |

| Grant Agreement number: | 688061 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Project acronym: | TagItSmart! |
| Project title: | Smart Tags driven service platform for enabling ecosystems of connected objects |
| Project website address: | ​[http://tagitsmart.eu/](http://tagitsmart.eu/)​ |
| Start Date of the Project: | 1 January 2016 |
| Duration: | 36 Months |

| Editor: | Stephan Fortenly                                                                                                                     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Deliverable nature | Report \(R\) |
| Dissemination level: | Public \(PU\) |
| Delivery Date | 4-2018 |
| Authors | Stephan Fortelny |
| Contributors | David Franquesa |
|  | Xavier Bustamante |

| Call Identifier: | TagItSmart!02 call |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Proposal full name: | Circular economy for electronics reuse |
| Proposal acronym: | eReuse |
| Project URL | http://www.ereuse.org |

| Grant Agreement number: | 688061 |
| --- |


## **Executive Summary**

In this deliverable we present the use case definition and refinement performed with partners and circular economy circuit and more tightly with the pilot participants. 

## Project Business needs

The challenge we address is the implementation of a circular economy from the perspective of extending the lifetime \(or use\) of electronic/digital devices as much as possible by repairing, updating, refurbishing, and reusing them.The aim of eReuse platforms is to only recycle devices with low use value and no demand for reuse. In that case, eReuse platform must ensure proper recycling in a traceable manner. By use value, we refer to the usefulness of a commodity, in comparison to the exchange value by which the commodity compares an item to other objects on the market. 

1. How to ensure to device donors and ITADS the chain of custody from origin, during multiple cycles of reuse and until final recycling at component level ?
2. How to ensure the correct application of the waste hierarchy \(Circular Economy\) in such a way that only are recycled products with low use value and without demand ?
3. How to ensure consumers of used products that purchase properly refurbished products with right to repair permission, maximum selling price in the case of subsidised products and an established take-back collection process ?
4. How to avoid leakage by preventing the export of electronic waste or unauthorized agents have made the preparation for reuse?

## Pilot and use case definition

In our pilot project the users of eReuse platforms will test the integration with the TIS platform and the use of SmartTags to control the devices and components. We have chosen 8 customer segments with different business needs \(Digital Divide Initiatives, Refurbishers, Buyback, Retailers, Service, ITADs and Recyclers. Each segment has specific business needs that must be translated into requirements, implementation and validation during the pilot. This first pilot ITADS, REFURBISHERS, RETAILERS and ENDUSERS. Below we summarize their business needs, requirements and co-design actions, training and agreements made within the framework of the TIS project and their participation in the eReuse platform.

| Customer Segment | Pain | Service / Product |
| --- | --- |
|  |  |  |

### Business Needs

1. 
Pilot project 1:

1. ITAD: Owner of devices, data security and compliance, chain of custody until recycling.
2. REFURBISHERS: Collection to ITADs, add tags, certificate refurbishment process \(if waste certify the preparation for reuse process\), share their certified stocks with retailers, chain of custody until retailer.
3. RETAILER. Purchase refurbished devices to REFURBISHERS and sell to consumers, assess the state of functioning and features of computers in order to offer warranty or its extension, we will do the pilot with a retailer of type \(public or NGOs\), similar to retailers, but must guarantee a fair pricing to receivers, with a minimal charge for circularity services to support economically disadvantaged recipients while ensuring traceability until final recycling.
4. RECYCLER: being able to offer their collection services to REFURBISHERS or RETAILERS, reporting systems to the competent authorities.
5. DIGITAL DIVIDE INITIATIVE: 







Pilot project 2:

* **Digital Divide Initiatives**: public or NGOs, similar to retailers, but must guarantee a fair pricing to receivers, with a minimal charge for circularity services to support economically disadvantaged recipients while ensuring traceability until final recycling. 
* **Refurbishers**: can share their certified stocks with retailers, 6\) **ITAD**: data security and compliance solutions and stock sharing.





